README.md, before:

# PMM UI end-to-end tests
Percona Monitoring and Management UI automated tests. Designed to cover "End to End" scenarios.


## Getting Started

* Install Node.js 12+ version and make sure npx is included
* Install "playwright" browser driver, ex: `sudo npx playwright install-deps`

this is it! tests are good to go on specified PMM server.

### Getting PMM server ready
  * **Run tests upon local PMM server:**  
 execute command in the Project Root folder to start default PMM server: `docker-compose up -d`  
 Or one of the offered configurations:
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-ami-db-setup.yml up -d`
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-mongodb-ssl.yml up -d`
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-mongo-replica.yml up -d`
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-mysql-ssl.yml up -d`
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-postgresql-ssl.yml up -d`

 
  * **Setup environment for backup management tests:**  
    run `bash -x testdata/backup-management/mongodb/setup-replica-and-pbm-local.sh`.
    This will launch docker compose with PMM Server, PMM Client, and set up replica set with 3 Percona MongoDB instance
      
  * **Run tests upon remote PMM server:**  
    set desired instance URL in _**"PMM_UI_URL"**_ local environment variable    
    ex: create `.env` file with the following line `PMM_UI_URL=http://myPmmServer.com`

### Running tests:
Execute command in the Project Root folder
* **run all in single thread tests:** `npx codeceptjs run -c pr.codecept.js`
* **run all tests in parallel threads:** `npx codeceptjs run-multiple parallel -c pr.codecept.js`
* **run desired "classes":** `npx codeceptjs run -c pr.codecept.js tests/verifyMysqlDashboards_test.js`   
* **run desired groups/tags:** `npx codeceptjs run -c pr.codecept.js --steps --grep @settings`

### Test report
* Allure report in docker(no additional requirements)
   1. run allure server: `docker-compose -f docker-compose-allure.yml up -d`
   2. open test report in browser: http://localhost:5252/


* Allure report by **allure-commandline** tool
   1. Allure requires Java 8 or higher
   2. install allure-commandline: `npm install -g allure-commandline --save-dev`
   3. aggregate report: `allure serve tests/output/allure`


* HTML report Local(mochawesome):  
  1. run tests with `-R mocha-multi` flag  
     ex: `npx codeceptjs run -c pr.codecept.js --grep @backup -R mocha-multi` 
  2. open report file: `/tests/output/result.html`  
     or reports for each parallel thread `/tests/output/parallel_chunk1_..._1/result.html`
    
## **Available Command Line Arguments:**
 `--steps`  enables the step-by-step output of running tests to the console, ex:

    `npx codeceptjs run-multiple parallel -c pr.codecept.js --steps`

  `--debug`  enables a more detailed output to the console, ex:

    `npx codeceptjs run-multiple parallel -c pr.codecept.js --debug`

 `--verbose`  enables the very detailed output information to the console, ex:

    `npx codeceptjs run-multiple parallel -c pr.codecept.js --verbose`

 `--grep "@tag"` runs only tests marked by specified tags. The following tags are available:

    @ami-upgrade            Groups tests for the "pmm-ami-upgrade" Job
    @backup                     Backup Management functionality tests
    @dashboards             Dashboards functionality, check that graphs are not empty
                                (e.g. Data from exporters is displayed at those dashboards)
    @dbaas                  DB as a Service functionality tests
    @grafana-pr             Executed in Github Actions for PRs in percona-platform/grafana repository
    @ia                     Integrated Alerting functionality tests
    @instances              Remote Instances addition functionality 
                                and checking that data appears from exporters
    @inventory              Inventory functionality, removing nodes, services, etc.
    @not-ovf                Tests with this tag are excluded from execution for OVF image tests
    @nightly                executed on a nightly Job, mostly related to Dashboards. Includes tests 
                                to verify Metrics, Custom Filters and Navigation between Dashboards.
    @platform               Portal functionality tests
    @pmm-demo               Performs basic Sanity on PMM-Demo, ensures all expected Services are still running 
    @pmm-upgrade	        upgrade testing Scenarios to verify UI Upgrade for docker based PMM Server
    @pre-upgrade	        upgrade testing Scenarios to verify Docker way Upgrade. Executed BEFORE the upgrade
    @post-upgrade	        upgrade testing Scenarios to verify Docker way Upgrade. Executed AFTER the upgrade
    @post-client-upgrade    executed in the "pmm-upgrade" Job after"pmm-client" has been updated
    @qan	                Query Analytics(QAN) functionality tests
    @settings               PMM Settings functionality tests
    @stt                    Security Checks (STT) functionality tests
    @portal                 Integration tests between PMM and Percona Portal
    @pmm-ami                legacy/deprecated
    @not-ui-pipeline        legacy/deprecated
    @not-pr-pipeline        legacy/deprecated


## Contributing

For the specific contributions guidelines, please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) in the project root directory.

Commit message:

PMM-9760 PMM Upgrade Scenarios (#268)
* Skeleton for connecting PMM to Portal

* PMM-1097 and PMM-1098 tests

* Added portal flag to tests

* new Tag

* added tag platform, removed dependency

* Added test PMM-T1112

* test for service now users

* added missing env var

* updated okta url

* cloud execution fixes

* added wait to test remote execution

* Longer wait as a test

* wait removed

* removed slash from amOnPage

* extracted click into test

* percona platform page

* pmm to portal upgrade tests

* Handling reading file with node js file system

* public address to separate variable

* console log IP address

* New version of PMM to portal connection

* browser to ignore certificate errors

* Updated Tests

* test for pre pmm upgrade

* portal tests

* handling of tests running outside of upgrade tests

* Disconnect PMM from the portal

* portal tests as their own chunk

* Added flag to UI upgrade test

* removed unused method

* Fix Lint errors

* Created own upgrade scenario

* added authorization to upgrade

* Added flag to verify logs in PMM upgrade

* Added custom pmm name

* Wait longer after update

* timeout test

* Shorter timeout on page load

* Extracted method getVersion

* updated readme and config

* Moved tests to one file to remove duplicates

* fixes for the moving of the upgrade tests into portal

* Fixes for the upgrade

* we cannot delete user in afterSuite

* Scenario for preparing users for the

* Fix pull request comments.

* test data preparation updates

* moved tests together into portal tests file

* file helpers are not optional

* small improvements

README.md, after:

# PMM UI end-to-end tests
Percona Monitoring and Management UI automated tests. Designed to cover "End to End" scenarios.


## Getting Started

* Install Node.js 12+ version and make sure npx is included
* Install "playwright" browser driver, ex: `sudo npx playwright install-deps`

this is it! tests are good to go on specified PMM server.

### Getting PMM server ready
  * **Run tests upon local PMM server:**  
 execute command in the Project Root folder to start default PMM server: `docker-compose up -d`  
 Or one of the offered configurations:
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-ami-db-setup.yml up -d`
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-mongodb-ssl.yml up -d`
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-mongo-replica.yml up -d`
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-mysql-ssl.yml up -d`
    * `docker-compose -f docker-compose-postgresql-ssl.yml up -d`

 
  * **Setup environment for backup management tests:**  
    run `bash -x testdata/backup-management/mongodb/setup-replica-and-pbm-local.sh`.
    This will launch docker compose with PMM Server, PMM Client, and set up replica set with 3 Percona MongoDB instance
      
  * **Run tests upon remote PMM server:**  
    set desired instance URL in _**"PMM_UI_URL"**_ local environment variable    
    ex: create `.env` file with the following line `PMM_UI_URL=http://myPmmServer.com`

### Running tests:
Execute command in the Project Root folder
* **run all in single thread tests:** `npx codeceptjs run -c pr.codecept.js`
* **run all tests in parallel threads:** `npx codeceptjs run-multiple parallel -c pr.codecept.js`
* **run desired "classes":** `npx codeceptjs run -c pr.codecept.js tests/verifyMysqlDashboards_test.js`   
* **run desired groups/tags:** `npx codeceptjs run -c pr.codecept.js --steps --grep @settings`

### Test report
* Allure report in docker(no additional requirements)
   1. run allure server: `docker-compose -f docker-compose-allure.yml up -d`
   2. open test report in browser: http://localhost:5252/


* Allure report by **allure-commandline** tool
   1. Allure requires Java 8 or higher
   2. install allure-commandline: `npm install -g allure-commandline --save-dev`
   3. aggregate report: `allure serve tests/output/allure`


* HTML report Local(mochawesome):  
  1. run tests with `-R mocha-multi` flag  
     ex: `npx codeceptjs run -c pr.codecept.js --grep @backup -R mocha-multi` 
  2. open report file: `/tests/output/result.html`  
     or reports for each parallel thread `/tests/output/parallel_chunk1_..._1/result.html`
    
## **Available Command Line Arguments:**
 `--steps`  enables the step-by-step output of running tests to the console, ex:

    `npx codeceptjs run-multiple parallel -c pr.codecept.js --steps`

  `--debug`  enables a more detailed output to the console, ex:

    `npx codeceptjs run-multiple parallel -c pr.codecept.js --debug`

 `--verbose`  enables the very detailed output information to the console, ex:

    `npx codeceptjs run-multiple parallel -c pr.codecept.js --verbose`

 `--grep "@tag"` runs only tests marked by specified tags. The following tags are available:

    @ami-upgrade            Groups tests for the "pmm-ami-upgrade" Job
    @backup                     Backup Management functionality tests
    @dashboards             Dashboards functionality, check that graphs are not empty
                                (e.g. Data from exporters is displayed at those dashboards)
    @dbaas                  DB as a Service functionality tests
    @grafana-pr             Executed in Github Actions for PRs in percona-platform/grafana repository
    @ia                     Integrated Alerting functionality tests
    @instances              Remote Instances addition functionality 
                                and checking that data appears from exporters
    @inventory              Inventory functionality, removing nodes, services, etc.
    @not-ovf                Tests with this tag are excluded from execution for OVF image tests
    @nightly                executed on a nightly Job, mostly related to Dashboards. Includes tests 
                                to verify Metrics, Custom Filters and Navigation between Dashboards.
    @platform               Portal functionality tests
    @pmm-demo               Performs basic Sanity on PMM-Demo, ensures all expected Services are still running 
    @pmm-upgrade	        upgrade testing Scenarios to verify UI Upgrade for docker based PMM Server
    @pre-upgrade	        upgrade testing Scenarios to verify Docker way Upgrade. Executed BEFORE the upgrade
    @post-upgrade	        upgrade testing Scenarios to verify Docker way Upgrade. Executed AFTER the upgrade
    @post-client-upgrade    executed in the "pmm-upgrade" Job after"pmm-client" has been updated
    @qan	                Query Analytics(QAN) functionality tests
    @settings               PMM Settings functionality tests
    @stt                    Security Checks (STT) functionality tests
    @portal                 Integration tests between PMM and Percona Portal
    @pre-pmm-portal-upgrade  upgrade testing Scenarios to verify PMM connection to the Portal. Executed BEFORE the upgrade
    @post-pmm-portal-upgrade upgrade testing Scenarios to verify PMM connection to the Portal. Executed After the upgrade
    @pmm-portal-upgrade      upgrade testing Scenarios to verify UI PMM connected to the Portal
    @pmm-ami                legacy/deprecated
    @not-ui-pipeline        legacy/deprecated
    @not-pr-pipeline        legacy/deprecated


## Contributing

For the specific contributions guidelines, please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) in the project root directory.
